I'm going to go ahead now and then add a couple of servers here.
I'm going to go to EC2, I'm going to add one here.
I'm going to rename it into a web server or www.
I'm going to add a secondary one of these.
Let me copy this over to the other subnet.
Now, keep in mind, these are individual web servers.
So you have web server 1 and web server 2.
So this is less than ideal,
obviously, if you're running a business,
you want your customers to remember a single web address, yourbusiness.com.
They don't need to remember business1.com,
business2.com, that is totally impractical.
So we're probably going to load balance disguise by adding servers in front of
them so that people will access
that server instead of accessing your web servers directly.
However, let's take a moment to talk about auto-scaling groups,
something that we can use for the purpose of meeting customer demand,
as well as meeting our requirements for high availability.
I'll look for autoscaling here.
I'm going to use this container that says autoscaling.
I'm going to put it right here in our private subnets and I'm going to expand it
across two of our subnets.
Now, let's take a moment now to explain what an autoscaling group is.
Autoscaling or autoscaling groups is a service that you can
use to manage servers that provide a common service.
They need more than one sub-net.
They can't be used for the purpose of high availability and elasticity.
Elasticity is the ability to expand and contract your resources to meet demand.
So back here in our diagram,
let's explain those concepts.
First of all, high availability.
Let's say I had a single server that is part of
this autoscaling group and it's located in private subnet 1.
If something were to happen to that datacenter in AZ1,
the autoscaling group will detect that failure and will spin up
an identical copy of that service in private subnet 2,
which is located in availability zone 2,
which is a physical datacenter that is different from AZ1.
This will make your servers highly available because if
private subnet 1's becomes unavailable for whatever reason,
you can be guaranteed that the autoscaling group will
make sure your server is still running,
now in a different datacenter located in private subnet 2 and availability zone 2.
Now, let's talk about elasticity,
which is the second and most important concept regarding autoscaling.
If you have an application that is receiving 100 requests and you decide that, hey,
I can handle those 100 requests with one or two servers,
you can set them up inside an autoscaling group.
Let's say, if the number of requests exceeds 50,
you can instruct the autoscaling to spin up
another copy of that service to be able to handle the requests.
Now, if you have less than 50 requests at that time,
you can also instruct
the autoscaling group to delete that additional servers and that way,
you don't have to pay for those additional resources that are not being utilized.
The same can be said about any scale.
If you need hundreds of servers to be able to handle thousands of requests per second,
you can do that by spinning up more servers based on demand.
The scaling up and down criteria can be anything.
It can be the number of orders,
the number of images to be processed,
the number of web requests that your web server is receiving.
Anything that relates to the application that you're doing.
That's the availability of the Cloud.
You only pay for resources that you're actually using and
you eliminate those resources as soon as you're done using them.
That's the concept of elasticity.